# CS330_Final_Project

**HOW IT WORKS**

This programming assignment has the ability to "lock and unlock" a mechanism and uses an already set sequence of numbers as the locking and unlocking codes (810831 = Unlocking Code. 810834 = Locking Code.) These codes are the last 5 digits of an A number, followed by a 1 to unlock and a 4 to lock. As you type into the text box prompted by the program, the computer will read your inputs and as you type a stream of digits, will tell you if you locked or unlocked the mechanism. If you type the unlocking code, the program will tell you it was unlocked, and same with the locking code.

**HOW TO BUILD AN EXECUTABLE**

First, the Keypad class was created. This created the consturctors for the GUI class to take in the values of the variables used. After the Keypad was finished, the GUI class was created. This is the execuatble Java file that can run when turned into the .jar file. In the GUI class was the public static void method that executes the code when you run in the IDE and the .jar file through the terminal. The GUI class creates a Guided-User-Interface that consists of a JFrame (the window itself), a JLabel that tells the user if the mechanism is unlocked or not, and a JTextField that the user can type a string of numbers and characteres into. 

To turn the java files into a runnable .jar file, you need the .java files of your project and a manifest.txt file that specifies which .java file is the "Main" class. The manifeset.txt file should be formatted as:

>Main-Class: nameOfMainClass

with a return at the end of the line. (**The manifest.txt file is in the git repository. No need to make or edit the file.**)

Therefore, first clone the git repo to a directory of your chooing and navigate into the cloned git repo by typing:

>cd CS330_Final_Project (The name of the folder from the cloned git.)

Once in the folder in the terminal/command prompt, turn the .java files into .class files by typing:

>javac *.java

This will turn all .java files into .class files, which you will use next. To then turn the those files into a runnable, executable .jar file, type into the terminal/command prompt:

>jar cfm FinalProject.jar manifest.txt *.class


**HOW TO RUN THE EXECUTABLE IN THE GITHUB REPO**

In the GitHub repo, there is a .jar file named **RunnableGUI.jar**. To run this file, first clone the git repository to a directory of your choice. Next, navigate to that directory where you cloned the git repo and navigate into the folder it created. Once in the folder the git clone created, you should see 2 .java files, the README.md, and the RunnableGUI.jar. In the terminal/command prompt, type:

>java -jar FinalProject.jar

This should run the interface, the JFrame should pop up, and you should be able to type in the JTextField text box. To test the program, delete the text "**Type Here**", then begin.

**HOW TO GENERATE UNIT TEST COVERAGE**

Unit test coverage in this program is generated by the JUnit Testing in java. The unit test coverage would come from the pop-up window that the JUnit testing would be found in. The testing window would turn green when the tests all pass, and red if the tests all fail. You can also find if something is not used in the program. This is found by looking at if anyting in the program is underlined yellow. If so, then it is not used in the program and therefore is not used or covered. 

**PLATFORM BEING TESTED ON**

Coded on Eclipse IDE.

Tested terminal commands on MacOS and Windows 11.

Files uploaded to GitHub.
